---
layout: post
title: My Take
date: '2013-06-15T01:02:18+01:00'
tags:
- wwdc
- e3
- e32013
- wwdc2013
- apple
- ios
- osx
- mavericks
- os x mavericks
- witcher
- bungie destiny
- destiny
- xbox
- ps4
- sony
tumblr_url: http://charlieegan3.tumblr.com/post/52983416086/my-take
---
The internet is laden with responses and retaliation from the Monday conferences - here’s mine.

**WWDC**

Best conference of the day and one of the better WWDC’s I’ve watched. Mac Pro - finally, one that really looks set to be worth the wait too. I think it’ll be interesting to see how it handles heat, I can’t help but worry about cooling such components in such a tiny form factor. I really like the thunderbolt expansion basis it’s an interesting proposal to keep such machines up to speed. _However the thunderbolt cost is going to need to come down a lot_. I think the options that open up when this becomes more mainstream will be a really interesting one to watch.

iOS 7 looks set to make iOS an OS I might consider, certainly with  my iOS development tendencies growing stronger as I work on summer projects. The new UI looks interesting, but I won’t go out and say I love it just yet. I think Forstall got a hard time and Ive might go the same way a few years down the line. The Forstall hate way way out of line - sometimes the internet is a horrible place.

Dropping the Big Cat’s was another interesting move. Nice to see a stronger focus on a more pro finder and experience. It’s clear to see a new phase beginning with the lack of Jobs influence but it’s hard to say where we’re really heading at this stage.

All in all I think the conference gave brought Apple well up to speed but didn’t take them streaking ahead. All generally positive.

**E3**

Much less of a success in my eyes. Consoles are looking to lock down gaming and it’s killing things. Indie Devs were underrepresented and while some games looked good I got the general feel that things had got too big. Too much of a graphics focus and not enough on innovative gameplay and fun ideas to keep things fresh. Microsoft one on games and forgot their console, Sony lied about DRM to get the crowds roaring.

Witcher 3 and Destiny where the highlights for me.

All E3 has given me so far is plenty of reasons to not buy either console off launch.
