---
layout: post
title: Hangout⁷
date: '2013-03-07T00:30:00+00:00'
tags:
- Hangout
- xbox
- democracy
- google
- Video Call
- xbox live party
- google plus
- skype
- social networking
---
I’m a brit and wouldn’t be caught dead hanging out AFK - when I hangout, I hangout online. Despite rather poor first impressions Google Plus has really grown on me - for some reason that’s impossible to understand it’s really taken off amongst our circle of friends as a kind of private social network. Yeah it’s a little geeky and out of the way but it works out really well for us.

Most of those in my circles are in Aberdeen - yet we stay in different parts of the city and go to two different universities. Before the holiday the plan is for some other school friends to come up and spend the weekend here.

Somehow we managed to get everyone online and into a Google Hangout! There were seven of us in the end - out of a possible 9. I thought it would be mess of interruptions but the technology worked _really _well.

It’s perhaps the best way to sort something like that out short of meeting face to face - quite incredible really.

It wasn’t the call quality but the democracy that let the experience down. When a user chooses to block another user it seems they were unable to reverse this effect. When a user leaves he can’t rejoin. These ‘social controls’ really need to be better though out.

There should be a 'Vote to Kick’ option or something that allows users who aren’t the leader to take control of the situation. It’s different from an xbox live party where there is a leader - in a 'party’ everyone has a game to play and they are reasonably easy to set up. Hangouts take more time and are harder to start over with.

Hangouts are just incredible - a truly functional selling point - just add a dash of democracy to perfect.
