---
layout: post
title: Asana
date: '2013-08-03T01:02:58+01:00'
tags:
- asana
- business
- team
- tasks
- vtiger
- crm
- todo
- lists
- documentation
- productivity
- communication
- records
---
Here’s my review of a product we’ve put into action this week: Asana.

We’ve already got a very versatile CRM system that’s a little slow but does the job just fine. What we were lacking was communication in the office, a shared task list if you like. No member of staff is there all the time, and things were getting lost in the chopping and changing about. We’re hoping Asana can help with this.

So far it’s only really me that’s been using it, getting to know it better so I can teach the other members of staff in due course.

I’ve been keeping track of everything I do on there to act as an internal, searchable record for everyone. I hope that one day we can all do that - and ultimately have a better understanding of what we need to each be working on.

Anyway, lets cut to the chase. Asana, day 5:

It’s a really swish app and there’s too many benefits to list here. The fact that we are keeping the software on into next week says enough. I think it’s set to stay at least for now. 

My favourite feature is the “searchability”. It’s just so fast, incredibly fast to find everything that’s come and gone. It’s so much more flexible and searches in a much more modern and intelligent way - when compared to our CMR vtiger system.

It’s also got a great kind of checking off feeling. Once a projects done then it’s archived, still searchable, yet out of sight and mind for the time being. I think it’s what we all need, a little motivation and clarity in in the work we do.

There are a few things that would be great to have included. Here’s my constructive criticism:

“All Projects View” - there doesn’t seem to be a way to view a list of all the projects to sort them. That seems a little crucial to me. It would be great if there was an overview table that I could use to browse all the projects and see the most recent activity and who can see and contribute to them.

“Project Sorting and Categorisation” - the other feature that Asana sorely needs. It wold be great to be able to organise the projects into some kind of folder structure. There’s nothing like that at the moment, only workspaces but they’re totally private it seems. If everyone does in fact start using asana we’re quickly going to have too many on going projects on going and that’s a major issue. I think we might need to have teams or people subsets of some sort to sort that one out.

It’s a great service none the less and should make a big difference to the business if encouraged in it’s early stages.
