---
layout: post
title: Snapshot
date: '2013-05-18T01:02:12+01:00'
tags:
- url
- link rot
- google plus
- cache
- caching
- google
- post
- share
tumblr_url: http://charlieegan3.tumblr.com/post/50687511082/snapshot
---
This is thought came to me last week when I was trying to keep track of all the different flat viewings and accommodation related lines of enquiry we had on the go. There were way too many emails, numbers and most irritatingly, not enough adverts. Especially on Gumtree, landlords seem to remove the ads when they get enough interest - this is a terrible system. Not only does it make it look like you’ve been asking after places that don’t even exist but you loose the pictures, the address and all the other details.

I share all the flat details on Google Plus and looking back it just looks like a load of broken links.

**Feature Request:**

When you share a link, why can’t Google Plus take a cached version of the site and store it as a hidden attachment to the post. This would be tiny (it could be text only) for those scared of the storage implications. With this in the pocket of every linked post, Google Plus could _test if the page at the link had changed_, if it had it might want to _display the old version instead with a warning message_. Considering what Google has done in the past for minute markets and how much it already does in the way of web caching I don’t see what’s wrong with the idea. I see no technical hitches.

Basically I’m just annoyed I didn’t keep better track of the ads, however I think this would be a genuinely useful feature.
